XCBM will be an emulator for C64 and CBM 3032. It will _not_ go
to deeply into hardware emulation but will therefore be written
in C, using curses-library (standardized Terminal-I/O library) or
the common X-Windows system. XCBM will run on Unixes and will,
as no real system-dependent stuff is used , (hopefully) be portable.

These List describes the modes, the emulator will have someday:

A: video/keyboard I/O 
  1) curses based (no graphics, not even block-graphics(?))
    a) raw mode: keyboard and screen are caught by watching
       memory access to video mem / CIA I/O-Reg.
       screen size 40x25
    b) fast mode: many system routines caught by traps and emulated
       by C routines in the emulator.
       screen sizes: 40x25 with updating of video mem.
    c) large mode (see above), screen size 80x25 
       without updating of video mem. Just to use "normal" screen
       size on PCs/Unixes/etc
  2) X-based (full graphic available, may be no correct video irq timing)
    a) raw mode (see above)
    b) fast mode (see above)
    c) large mode (see above)

  Not yet know how to emulate simply pressed shift or ctrl keys, may be
  key sequences on PC keyboard to emulate special stuff.
  Same for joystick. If /dev/mouse availble, should be mapped to keyboard.
  no paddle support.

B: sound
  if /dev/audio available, make most sounds (may be no filter, or then
  use /dev/dsp or fm-device (don't know yet). otherwise none.

C: IEC-Bus
  no raw mode available. Disk speeders will not work. IEC routines traped
  and emulated in C. Disks "0:",8 "1:",8 "0:",9 "1:",9 can be redirected
  to subdirectories anywhere in the Unix directory tree.
  Printer (device 4) will be emulated/redirected to lpr. not yet known how.

D: Tape
  no support.

E: Expansion port
  only ROM/RAM support. may be a description file, what addresses have to
  be loaded with which ROM-File and what is RAM. Also description of
  usage of config lines on expansion port.

F: Timing
  It is not planned to do much more than incrementing system time 
  (1MHz) for CIAs and VIC to do some Video Interrupting (only X-based)

